Report.md, before:

# CA-project1     Report
## Teammate
    B06902051    呂侑承
    B06902035    王靖傑
    B06902019    洪佳生
# Main steps
1. Set up basic Single Cycle CPU support basic commands.

2. Based on the original Single Cycle CPU version, implement pipeline registers, i.e. IF\ID.v, ID\_EX.v, EX\_MEM.v and MEM\_WB.v without handling hazard caused by pipeline.

3. Add Forwarding.v and HazardDection.v to handle data hazard and control hazard.

# Implementation of CPU.v
Declare input and output ports of each modules and connect their ports in CPU.v

*    Instruction Fetch

        Including PC.v、Adder.v、MUX32、Instruction_Memory
            
        Load the instruction from instruction memory according to the value of current PC.

*    Instruction Decode
    
        Including HazardDetection.v、Registers.v、Equal.v、Imm_Gen.v、Shift.v、Adder.v、Control.v、MUX7.v
        
        Generate several control signals from the instruction and load the registers' value according to the addresses in the instruction. 

*    Execution
        
        Including Forwarding.v、MUX32_forwarding.v、MUX32.v、ALU_Control.v、ALU.v
        
        According to the result of Forwarding,MUX32_forwarding will which source of data been uesd in ALU.

*    Data Memory
        
        Including Data_Memory.v
        
        According to the control signals,Whether the ALU result will be stored into memory and whether data will be loaded from the memory will be decided and implemented.

*    Write Back
        
        Including MUX32.v
        
        According to the control signals,the write back data will be from data memory or from ALU result.

# Implementation of each module
* PC: 

    Program counter, a register which stores the current position of instruction memory.

* Adder: 

     Add the two input value and then output it.

* MUX32: 

    32-bit multiplexer.

* Instruction\_Memory: 

    A memory space to store instructions.

* IF\_ID: 

    We have two registers in it, storing current PC and instruction. If stall_i == 1, we remain it unchanged. If flush_i == 1, we flush the whole register.

* HazardDetection: 

    When the instruction in EX stage is lw, and the RD address is equal to RS1 or RS2 in ID stage, we output Hazard_o = 1, else Hazard_o = 0.

* Registers: 

    32-bit registers used to store data.

* Equal: 

    It is used to determine whether RS1 is qual to RS2, when instruction == beq.

* Imm\_Gen: 

    Convert the instruction into immediate value according to each instruction formats. 

* Control: 

    Output each control signals according to the control table of each instruction.

* MUX7: 

    When hazard is detected, we flush all the control signals to generate a nop(no operation).

* ID\_EX: 

    The pipeline registers to store necessary data used in EX, MEM, WB stages.

* Forwarding: 

    We have two kinds of forwarding, i.e. EX-forwarding and MEM-forwarding. We compare the RD with RS1 or RS2 to find out which type of forwarding appears, and send the control signal to MUX32_forwarding.

* MUX32\_forwarding: 

    The input contains the original RS1 or RS2, and the result from MEM stage and WB stage. We determine the output according to the type of forwaing.

* ALU\_Control: 

    The signal to determine which ALU is performed.

* ALU: 

    Arithmetic Logic Unit

* EX\_MEM: 

    Store the necessary data for MEM and WB stage.

* Data\_Memory: 

    Write ALU result into Data memory or load Data memory into register.

* MEM\_WB: 

    Transmit the signals from Data Memory stage to Write Back stage.

# Encountered Problems
In implemeting the basic CPU without pipelining,we encoutered a problem: When running arithmetic commands with rd and rs1\(2\) pointing to the same register such as "addi x7, x7, 6",the ALU causes some problem causing the program shut down before going to the next cycle. It turns out that the Registers.v file provided in project is customized for pipelined CPU which doesn't work well with our first version code.

After adding pipeline register into CPU, we discovered that even if we initialize the pipeline register in testbench.v, after first cycle the value of some registers and wire are still x or z. We solved this problem by continuing initializing the pipeline registers until rst\_i is set to 1. By doing so, the registers in pipeline wouldn't be poluted by the value x in wires when the program just started. 

My teamate likes to keep a good coding style so after we finish the whole program and it works,he renames the input/output wires and replace some wires by other modules' outputs. Besides,he deletes the registers not in pipeline registers that may be unnecessary In addition, he reconnects the outputs & inputs of HazardDetection.v and Forwarding.v to make the control flow simpler and more readable. To make a long story short(All in all),he did a great job but the original version still works well. When I discover that the whole new version of code isn't like what I wrote before, be honestly that I was very furious and a little upset. Maybe I am not good enough because maybe 70% things I did was reset by other.I know it isn't his fault but still feel anxiety. In conclusion,I have to say it really become more comprehensible for the reader."Good job ! bro !."

Commit message:

Add a note on the use of Reset in testbench.v

Report.md, after:

# CA-project1     Report
## Teammate
    B06902051    呂侑承
    B06902035    王靖傑
    B06902019    洪佳生
# Main steps
1. Set up basic Single Cycle CPU support basic commands.

2. Based on the original Single Cycle CPU version, implement pipeline registers, i.e. IF\ID.v, ID\_EX.v, EX\_MEM.v and MEM\_WB.v without handling hazard caused by pipeline.

3. Add Forwarding.v and HazardDection.v to handle data hazard and control hazard.

# Implementation of CPU.v
Declare input and output ports of each modules and connect their ports in CPU.v

*    Instruction Fetch

        Including PC.v、Adder.v、MUX32、Instruction_Memory
            
        Load the instruction from instruction memory according to the value of current PC.

*    Instruction Decode
    
        Including HazardDetection.v、Registers.v、Equal.v、Imm_Gen.v、Shift.v、Adder.v、Control.v、MUX7.v
        
        Generate several control signals from the instruction and load the registers' value according to the addresses in the instruction. 

*    Execution
        
        Including Forwarding.v、MUX32_forwarding.v、MUX32.v、ALU_Control.v、ALU.v
        
        According to the result of Forwarding,MUX32_forwarding will which source of data been uesd in ALU.

*    Data Memory
        
        Including Data_Memory.v
        
        According to the control signals,Whether the ALU result will be stored into memory and whether data will be loaded from the memory will be decided and implemented.

*    Write Back
        
        Including MUX32.v
        
        According to the control signals,the write back data will be from data memory or from ALU result.

# Change of testbench.v
* Uncomment lines including Reset

    Pass Reset to rst_i of CPU.v to solve some problems(mention later).

# Implementation of each module
* PC: 

    Program counter, a register which stores the current position of instruction memory.

* Adder: 

     Add the two input value and then output it.

* MUX32: 

    32-bit multiplexer.

* Instruction\_Memory: 

    A memory space to store instructions.

* IF\_ID: 

    We have two registers in it, storing current PC and instruction. If stall_i == 1, we remain it unchanged. If flush_i == 1, we flush the whole register.

* HazardDetection: 

    When the instruction in EX stage is lw, and the RD address is equal to RS1 or RS2 in ID stage, we output Hazard_o = 1, else Hazard_o = 0.

* Registers: 

    32-bit registers used to store data.

* Equal: 

    It is used to determine whether RS1 is qual to RS2, when instruction == beq.

* Imm\_Gen: 

    Convert the instruction into immediate value according to each instruction formats. 

* Control: 

    Output each control signals according to the control table of each instruction.

* MUX7: 

    When hazard is detected, we flush all the control signals to generate a nop(no operation).

* ID\_EX: 

    The pipeline registers to store necessary data used in EX, MEM, WB stages.

* Forwarding: 

    We have two kinds of forwarding, i.e. EX-forwarding and MEM-forwarding. We compare the RD with RS1 or RS2 to find out which type of forwarding appears, and send the control signal to MUX32_forwarding.

* MUX32\_forwarding: 

    The input contains the original RS1 or RS2, and the result from MEM stage and WB stage. We determine the output according to the type of forwaing.

* ALU\_Control: 

    The signal to determine which ALU is performed.

* ALU: 

    Arithmetic Logic Unit

* EX\_MEM: 

    Store the necessary data for MEM and WB stage.

* Data\_Memory: 

    Write ALU result into Data memory or load Data memory into register.

* MEM\_WB: 

    Transmit the signals from Data Memory stage to Write Back stage.

* Note:

    In all the pipeline registers, IF_ID, ID_EX, EX_MEM and MEM_WB, we use rst_i to determine the time to get the input value from input port in "first cycle". By doing so, we could avoid the registers in pipeline registers from being polluted by the undetermined value x\(z\) of wires during first cycle.

# Encountered Problems
In implemeting the basic CPU without pipelining,we encoutered a problem: When running arithmetic commands with rd and rs1\(2\) pointing to the same register such as "addi x7, x7, 6",the ALU causes some problem causing the program shut down before going to the next cycle. It turns out that the Registers.v file provided in project is customized for pipelined CPU which doesn't work well with our first version code.

After adding pipeline register into CPU, we discovered that even if we initialize the pipeline register in testbench.v, after first cycle the value of some registers and wire are still x or z. We solved this problem by continuing initializing the pipeline registers until rst\_i is set to 1. By doing so, the registers in pipeline wouldn't be poluted by the value x in wires when the program just started. 

My teamate likes to keep a good coding style so after we finish the whole program and it works,he renames the input/output wires and replace some wires by other modules' outputs. Besides,he deletes the registers not in pipeline registers that may be unnecessary In addition, he reconnects the outputs & inputs of HazardDetection.v and Forwarding.v to make the control flow simpler and more readable. To make a long story short(All in all),he did a great job but the original version still works well. When I discover that the whole new version of code isn't like what I wrote before, be honestly that I was very furious and a little upset. Maybe I am not good enough because maybe 70% things I did was reset by other.I know it isn't his fault but still feel anxiety. In conclusion,I have to say it really become more comprehensible for the reader."Good job ! bro !."
